In the last section we finished up our discussion on St. Just the one last thing I want to mention about
it is that we only use state with class based components.
So I've got a class based company right here.
This has access to state any functional components we create like you know the header does not have
access to state.
So whenever you want the state you've got to be thinking class based component that last last thing
I'm going to mention there about state.
So this one time.
Believe it or not we have probably covered about 85 percent of the entire re-act API like all the different
methods you can call.
We've talked about prop's state lifecycle methods functional components class based components.
There's not a lot more to talk about regarding react.
So we actually has a famously tiny library and it's certainly a subject I would say is quick to learn
but long to master.
So from as far as the re-act side of things go in this course we are really going to build out our knowledge
of all the topics we've covered so far and figure out how to combine them in more complex ways.
But there's not really a lot more many more topics like really brand new API calls or systems or anything
like that having to do with re-act that we're going to discuss.
So my favorite part of the library is without a doubt.
Anyways we now have our list of albums they are available as this state albums.
That is what they said too.
That's how we're getting access to that list.
So it is now time for us to build a list of albums to show the user.
We want to show a list of components in particular because we loaded up five different albums.
We should now have five different album detailed components.
Remember we said of the album detail component was going to be the component that we would show just
a single album.
So in other words what we need to do now is make a list.
So we've got to do.
Let's pull up a diagram really quick that's going to help us understand how to build lists.
So on the left hand side is a representation of the album's array that we have.
So this statement albums.
So each red box here represents one album.
What we need to do is kind of transform each of these objects into a component.
That's our goal for each album that we have loaded up we want to create one album detail component which
we're going to create very shortly here that is the goal to do this transformation.
We're going to use the map method.
We're going to map over our array of albums and for each album we have loaded we will return one album
detail a component.
That's the that's the goal.
Back over inside of my album list I'm going to make a helper method to generate this list of albums
album details excuse me so I can add a method in here called render albums.
Then I'm going to take my list of albums that we've now fetched which is available as this state albums
and I'm going to map over it.
If you're not familiar with the map function no problem.
Map is an array helper.
I get to call it on this outstate that albums because albums right here is an array the way that map
works is that we passen a fat arrow function.
Then inside of the federal function or exceedingly we rephrase that our federal function we called five
times one for each album that we've loaded whatever we returned from that function will be entered into
a new array that gets returned from the map function.
But you know what I don't know.
I can talk about this stuff for all day let's just put the code in and you'll be a little little bit
more obvious what's going on.
So I did my federal function the fat arrow function and he called with a single album out of the Alden's
array.
And then for each album I'm just going to turn a text tag that contains the album's title so album title.
Notice that because I'm inside of some GSX here and I want to make reference to a javascript variable
specifically album title I'm going to wrap it with curly braces.
So remember whenever we want to reference a javascript variable within GSX we wrap it with curly braces
otherwise react to things we're trying to show in text.
And finally I'm going to make sure that I return this new array that I've now created.
Get some more space here.
There we go.
Then the last step is I'm going to replace inside of my render method I can replace that text tag down
here with a reference to this render albums.
So again I am making reference to a javascript variable or a function within some within some GSX.
So I'm going to replace or in a place my curly braces and then call this dot render albums.
All right.
So let's give this a shot.
Now I am going to flip over to a simulator.
Let's do our refresh and hot dog.
I've got a list of all my album names.
Taylor Swift I am not you know necessarily a tailor fair a muchness same a Taylor Swift fan but you
know she's a nice neutral middle ground.
I consider doing a lot of different albums for this app but you know Tasik works that song a say on
Taylor Swift.
So here's are we definitely are rendering the name of each album.
We've got all five albums here but we also have a warning that just popped up on the screen at the bottom
something about each child should have a unique key prop check the render method something something
something.
So let's take a quick break continue the next section and figure out exactly what this warning message
is about.